docs/schema/indexes.mdx, before:

---
description: Indexes are essential for good database performance.
sidebar_position: 40
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Indexes

Indexes in a database use a similar approach as in most non-fiction books: terms and concepts that are frequently looked
up by readers are collected in an alphabetic index at the end of the book. The interested reader can scan the index
relatively quickly and flip to the appropriate page(s), rather than having to read the entire book to find the material
of interest.


## Add index

An index can be of either type btree, brin, gin, gist or hash.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Create an index"
        POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indexes HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "name": "inductees-id-btree",
            "columns": ["id"],
            "method": "btree"
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia index add "rockhall" "inductees" "id" btree "inductees-id-btree"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Get index

You can either get a single index or a collection of indexes.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="All indexes for a table"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indexes HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

        ```http title="Specific index by name"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indexes/my-btree-index-on-id HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia index get "rockhall" "inductees" "btree-on-id"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

An index object looks like this.

```json
{
  "name": "btree-on-id",
  "columns": ["id"],
  "method": "btree"
}
```

## Delete index

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Delete index by name"
        DELETE https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indexes/inductees-id-btree HTTP/1.1
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia index drop "rockhall" "inductees" "id" "inductees-id-btree"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Standardize terminology across documentation: replace "indexes" with "indices" for consistency.

docs/schema/indexes.mdx, after:

---
description: Indices are essential for good database performance.
sidebar_position: 40
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Indices

Indices in a database use a similar approach as in most non-fiction books: terms and concepts that are frequently looked
up by readers are collected in an alphabetic index at the end of the book. The interested reader can scan the index
relatively quickly and flip to the appropriate page(s), rather than having to read the entire book to find the material
of interest.


## Add index

An index can be of either type btree, brin, gin, gist or hash.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Create an index"
        POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indices HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "name": "inductees-id-btree",
            "columns": ["id"],
            "method": "btree"
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia index add "rockhall" "inductees" "id" btree "inductees-id-btree"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Get index

You can either get a single index or a collection of indices.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="All indices for a table"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indices HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

        ```http title="Specific index by name"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indices/my-btree-index-on-id HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia index get "rockhall" "inductees" "btree-on-id"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

An index object looks like this.

```json
{
  "name": "btree-on-id",
  "columns": ["id"],
  "method": "btree"
}
```

## Delete index

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Delete index by name"
        DELETE https://api.centia.io/api/v4/schemas/rockhall/tables/inductees/indices/inductees-id-btree HTTP/1.1
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia index drop "rockhall" "inductees" "id" "inductees-id-btree"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>
