docs/graphql.mdx, before:

---
title: GraphQL
description: The GraphQL API provides a flexible way to query and manipulate data using a dynamic schema based on your database tables.
sidebar_position: 62
---

# GraphQL

The GraphQL API allows you to query and manipulate your database data using a dynamically generated schema. Each table in your schema is automatically mapped to GraphQL types, queries, and mutations.

## Endpoint and Authentication

The GraphQL endpoint is schema-specific (see [Schemas](/docs/schema/schemas) for more information):

`POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/{schema_name}`

Authentication is handled via a Bearer token in the `Authorization` header (see [OAuth](/docs/oauth) for more information).

```http request
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "query": "query { ... }"
}
```

:::info
The GraphQL API can currently only be used in http context. Websockets will be supported soon.
:::

## Introspection

You can use standard GraphQL introspection to explore the available types and fields. This is useful for tools like GraphiQL or Apollo Studio.

```graphql
query {
  __schema {
    types {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

## Queries

For every table in your database, the API provides a query field named `get[TableName]` (in camelCase).

### Basic Query

To fetch records from a table named `artists`:

```http request title="Request, basic query"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getArtists { artist_id legal_name } }"
}
```

### Filtering

The `where` argument supports complex filtering using logical and comparison operators. Simple equality filters are also supported.

**Simple Equality:**
```graphql
{ getArtists(where: { artist_id: 1 }) { legal_name } }
```

**Supported Operators:**
- `eq`: Equal
- `neq`: Not equal
- `gt`: Greater than
- `gte`: Greater than or equal
- `lt`: Less than
- `lte`: Less than or equal
- `in`: Included in array
- `like`: Case-sensitive pattern match
- `ilike`: Case-insensitive pattern match

**Logical Operators:**
- `and`: Logical AND
- `or`: Logical OR
- `not`: Logical NOT

```http request title="Request, filtered query"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getArtists(where: { and: [ { legal_name: { ilike: \"%Linus%\" } }, { instrument: { eq: \"guitar\" } } ] }) { legal_name instrument } }"
}
```

### Pagination

Use `limit` and `offset` for pagination.

```http request title="Request, pagination"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getArtists(limit: 10, offset: 20) { artist_id legal_name } }"
}
```

### Relationships

If there are foreign key constraints between tables, the GraphQL API automatically exposes them as nested fields.

```http request title="Request, relationships"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getAlbums { title bands { name subgenre } } }"
}
```

## Mutations

The API provides `insert`, `update`, and `delete` mutations for each table.

### Insert

Use `insert[TableName]` to add new records. You can provide a single record via `data` or multiple records via `objects`.

```http request title="Request, insert mutation"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "mutation { insertArtists(objects: [{ legal_name: \"John Doe\", instrument: \"Piano\" }]) { artist_id legal_name } }"
}
```

### Update

Use `update[TableName]` to modify existing records. Use the `where` argument to specify which records to update and `data` for the new values.

```http request title="Request, update mutation"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "mutation { updateArtists(where: { artist_id: { eq: 1 } }, data: { instrument: \"Electric Guitar\" }) { artist_id instrument } }"
}
```

### Delete

Use `delete[TableName]` to remove records.

```http request title="Request, delete mutation"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "mutation { deleteArtists(where: { artist_id: { eq: 1 } }) { artist_id } }"
}
```

## Data Types

The GraphQL API supports various PostgreSQL data types, mapping them to appropriate GraphQL types:

- **Scalars**: `integer`, `float`, `boolean`, `string`, `JSON` , `ID`, `Date`, `Time`, `DateTime`.
- **Geometric Types**: `Point`, `Line`, `Lseg`, `Box`, `Circle`, `Path`, `Polygon`.
- **Range Types**: `Int4range`, `Int8range`, `Numrange`, `Tsrange`, `Tstzrange`, `Daterange`.
- **Arrays**: Any type can be returned as a list (e.g., `[String]`, `[Int]`).

Any complex types can be used as input arguments for mutations. Type hints are not required because the schemas are
dynamically generated from the database relations.

Se also [Types](/docs/types).

Consider a generated schema like this:

```graphql title="Schema"
type Tours {
  id: ID!
  artist_name: String!
  tour_name: String!
  from_to: Daterange!
}

type Daterange {
  lower: String
  upper: String
  lowerInclusive: Boolean
  upperInclusive: Boolean
}

type Mutation {
  insertTours(data: JSON, objects: [JSON]): [Tours]
  updateTours(id: ID, where: JSON, data: JSON): [Tours]
  deleteTours(id: ID, where: JSON): [Tours]
}

```
Then you can insert a new tour using the following mutation. The Daterange field is represented as JSON:

```graphql title="Operation"
mutation InsertTours($data: JSON) {
  insertTours(data: $data) {
    id
    from_to {
      lower
      upper
    }
  }
}
```
```json title="variables"
{
  "data": {
    "artist_name": "Guns n’ Roses",
    "tour_name": "Europe: Summer 2026",
    "from_to": {
      "lower": "2010-04-06",
      "upper": "2011-03-07",
      "lowerInclusive": true,
      "upperInclusive": true
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update `graphql.mdx` to redefine `Daterange` bounds as `Date` type and add scalar description for improved clarity.

docs/graphql.mdx, after:

---
title: GraphQL
description: The GraphQL API provides a flexible way to query and manipulate data using a dynamic schema based on your database tables.
sidebar_position: 62
---

# GraphQL

The GraphQL API allows you to query and manipulate your database data using a dynamically generated schema. Each table in your schema is automatically mapped to GraphQL types, queries, and mutations.

## Endpoint and Authentication

The GraphQL endpoint is schema-specific (see [Schemas](/docs/schema/schemas) for more information):

`POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/{schema_name}`

Authentication is handled via a Bearer token in the `Authorization` header (see [OAuth](/docs/oauth) for more information).

```http request
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "query": "query { ... }"
}
```

:::info
The GraphQL API can currently only be used in http context. Websockets will be supported soon.
:::

## Introspection

You can use standard GraphQL introspection to explore the available types and fields. This is useful for tools like GraphiQL or Apollo Studio.

```graphql
query {
  __schema {
    types {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

## Queries

For every table in your database, the API provides a query field named `get[TableName]` (in camelCase).

### Basic Query

To fetch records from a table named `artists`:

```http request title="Request, basic query"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getArtists { artist_id legal_name } }"
}
```

### Filtering

The `where` argument supports complex filtering using logical and comparison operators. Simple equality filters are also supported.

**Simple Equality:**
```graphql
{ getArtists(where: { artist_id: 1 }) { legal_name } }
```

**Supported Operators:**
- `eq`: Equal
- `neq`: Not equal
- `gt`: Greater than
- `gte`: Greater than or equal
- `lt`: Less than
- `lte`: Less than or equal
- `in`: Included in array
- `like`: Case-sensitive pattern match
- `ilike`: Case-insensitive pattern match

**Logical Operators:**
- `and`: Logical AND
- `or`: Logical OR
- `not`: Logical NOT

```http request title="Request, filtered query"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getArtists(where: { and: [ { legal_name: { ilike: \"%Linus%\" } }, { instrument: { eq: \"guitar\" } } ] }) { legal_name instrument } }"
}
```

### Pagination

Use `limit` and `offset` for pagination.

```http request title="Request, pagination"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getArtists(limit: 10, offset: 20) { artist_id legal_name } }"
}
```

### Relationships

If there are foreign key constraints between tables, the GraphQL API automatically exposes them as nested fields.

```http request title="Request, relationships"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "query { getAlbums { title bands { name subgenre } } }"
}
```

## Mutations

The API provides `insert`, `update`, and `delete` mutations for each table.

### Insert

Use `insert[TableName]` to add new records. You can provide a single record via `data` or multiple records via `objects`.

```http request title="Request, insert mutation"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "mutation { insertArtists(objects: [{ legal_name: \"John Doe\", instrument: \"Piano\" }]) { artist_id legal_name } }"
}
```

### Update

Use `update[TableName]` to modify existing records. Use the `where` argument to specify which records to update and `data` for the new values.

```http request title="Request, update mutation"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "mutation { updateArtists(where: { artist_id: { eq: 1 } }, data: { instrument: \"Electric Guitar\" }) { artist_id instrument } }"
}
```

### Delete

Use `delete[TableName]` to remove records.

```http request title="Request, delete mutation"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/graphql/schema/public
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <your_token>

{
  "query": "mutation { deleteArtists(where: { artist_id: { eq: 1 } }) { artist_id } }"
}
```

## Data Types

The GraphQL API supports various PostgreSQL data types, mapping them to appropriate GraphQL types:

- **Scalars**: `integer`, `float`, `boolean`, `string`, `JSON` , `ID`, `Date`, `Time`, `DateTime`.
- **Geometric Types**: `Point`, `Line`, `Lseg`, `Box`, `Circle`, `Path`, `Polygon`.
- **Range Types**: `Int4range`, `Int8range`, `Numrange`, `Tsrange`, `Tstzrange`, `Daterange`.
- **Arrays**: Any type can be returned as a list (e.g., `[String]`, `[Int]`).

Any complex types can be used as input arguments for mutations. Type hints are not required because the schemas are
dynamically generated from the database relations.

Se also [Types](/docs/types).

Consider a generated schema like this:

```graphql title="Schema"
type Tours {
  id: ID!
  artist_name: String!
  tour_name: String!
  from_to: Daterange!
}

"""
Date is accepted in almost any reasonable format, including ISO 8601, SQL-compatible, traditional POSTGRES, and others.
"""
scalar Date

"""Range type for daterange, with lower and upper bounds of type Date."""
type Daterange {
  lower: Date
  upper: Date
  lowerInclusive: Boolean
  upperInclusive: Boolean
}

type Mutation {
  insertTours(data: JSON, objects: [JSON]): [Tours]
  updateTours(id: ID, where: JSON, data: JSON): [Tours]
  deleteTours(id: ID, where: JSON): [Tours]
}

```
Then you can insert a new tour using the following mutation. The Daterange field is represented as JSON:

```graphql title="Operation"
mutation InsertTours($data: JSON) {
  insertTours(data: $data) {
    id
    from_to {
      lower
      upper
    }
  }
}
```
```json title="variables"
{
  "data": {
    "artist_name": "Guns n’ Roses",
    "tour_name": "Europe: Summer 2026",
    "from_to": {
      "lower": "2010-04-06",
      "upper": "2011-03-07",
      "lowerInclusive": true,
      "upperInclusive": true
    }
  }
}
```
