docs/oauth.mdx, before:

---
Title: OAuth
description: OAuth ...
sidebar_position: 20
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# OAuth
OAuth is an industry-standard protocol for authorization. It enables applications ([clients](./clients)) to
obtain limited access to user accounts on Centia.io, without sharing the user’s credentials
directly with the client. OAuth accomplishes this by providing a secure, delegated access flow that grants tokens to
client applications.

Within Centia.io, we implement three main OAuth flows, each suited for different use cases:

1. Password Flow
2. Authorization Code Flow
3. Device Flow

Each flow handles authentication and authorization differently.
Below is an outline of how to use each flow and when to choose one over another.

## Password Flow

### Overview

The Password Flow is the most direct OAuth flow. In this flow, the client application directly collects the user’s
credentials (username and password) and exchanges them with Centia.io for an access token.

Use cases:

- Trusted first-party applications where you trust the client application to handle user credentials directly.
- Legacy or internal applications that already require users to enter credentials directly into the app.
- Situations where an interactive browser-based redirection might be cumbersome or unnecessary.

Security considerations:

- Since the client handles user credentials directly, this flow is generally considered less secure and should only be
used when other flows are not feasible.
- Always ensure your communication is happening over a secure HTTPS channel.
- Store tokens securely and avoid persisting raw user credentials whenever possible.

### Flow Steps

1. Collect user credentials: Your application collects the username and password from the user securely.
2. Send token request: The client application sends a POST request to Centia.io OAuth token endpoint:

```http
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "grant_type": "password",
    "username": "<USER_USERNAME>",
    "password": "<USER_PASSWORD>",
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>"
}
```

3. Receive token response: If the credentials are valid, the authorization server returns
an access_token and optionally a refresh_token:

```json
{
  "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "refresh_token": "some-refresh-token"
}
```
4. Use the access token: The application includes the access_token in the Authorization header for subsequent requests:

```http
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...
```
Notes:
- `client_secret` is only required for confidential clients.

## Authorization Code Flow

### Overview
The Authorization Code Flow is the most commonly used OAuth 2.0 flow, particularly for web applications and single-page
applications (SPAs) that can securely handle client secrets on a server or use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange).

Use cases:

- Web or native applications that can securely manage client secrets or use PKCE for enhanced security.
- Situations where you want to avoid collecting user credentials in the application and
instead rely on a redirect to Centia.io login page.
- Multi-tenant or third-party applications that must not handle user credentials directly.

Security considerations:

- When running on public clients (like a browser-only single-page app), use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange)
to prevent authorization code interception.

- All callbacks and communications must use https:// to protect tokens and credentials.

Notes:
- At the moment, PKCE is mandatory for both public and confidential clients in the Authorization Code Flow.

### Flow Steps

1. User initiates login: The user attempts to log in, and the application redirects them to Centia.io login page:

```http
GET https://api.centia.io/auth?
    response_type=code&
    client_id=<CLIENT_ID>&
    redirect_uri=<REDIRECT_URI>&
    scope=<REQUESTED_SCOPES>&
    state=<RANDOM_STATE_STRING>&
    code_challenge=<CODE_CHALLENGE_STRING>&
    code_challenge_method=S256
```

2. User authenticates: The user enters their credentials on the Centia.io login page.

3. Centia.io returns code: If the user is authenticated and consents to the requested scopes, Centia.io
redirects the user back to the specified redirect_uri with a short-lived `authorization_code` and the state string for
the client to check:

```http
https://rockhall.io?code=67c2b....&state=49c9282cd61698....
```

4. Exchange code for tokens: The client application sends a POST request to Centia.io token endpoint, including the
authorization code and PKCE verifier:

```http title="application/json"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "grant_type": "authorization_code",
  "code": "<AUTH_CODE>",
  "redirect_uri": "<REDIRECT_URI>",
  "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
  "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
  "code_verifier": "<CODE_VERIFIER>"
}
```
Or:

```http title="application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Cookie: XDEBUG_SESSION=XDEBUG_ECLIPSE
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type = authorization_code &
code = <AUTH_CODE> &
redirect_uri = <REDIRECT_URI>
client_id = <CLIENT_ID> &
client_secret = <CLIENT_SECRET> &
code_verifier = <CODE_VERIFIER> &
```

5. Receive token response: Centia.io returns an access_token, refresh_token and related metadata:

```json
{
  "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "refresh_token": "some-refresh-token"
}
```

6. Use the access token: Subsequent resource requests to the Centia.io APIs include the access_token:

```http
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...
```

## Device Flow

### Overview
The Device Flow is designed for input-constrained devices (e.g., Smart TVs, IoT devices) that either lack an integrated
web browser or have limited/awkward input capabilities. It allows the device to display or otherwise provide a user code
and verification URL. The user then completes the authorization on a separate device (like a phone or computer),
and the original device obtains an access token when the user authorizes.

Use cases:

- Smart TVs or streaming devices.
- IoT devices without a standard web browser input.
- Any system where the device can show a short code but does not have a keyboard or the ability to handle redirects.

Security considerations:

- The device never directly handles user credentials; it only polls the server for authorization status.
- Codes need to be displayed to the user in a secure and user-friendly manner.
- Polling interval should be respected to avoid overwhelming the authorization server.

### Flow Steps

1. Device requests a device code: The device makes a POST request to the device authorization endpoint:

```http
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth/device
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "client_id": "<DEVICE_CLIENT_ID>"
}
```

2. Receive device and user codes: The Centia.io responds with a device_code, user_code, verification_uri, and interval:

```json
{
    "device_code": "<DEVICE_CODE>",
    "user_code": "AB12-CD34",
    "verification_uri": "https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth",
    "expires_in": 1800,
    "interval": 5
}
```

Display instructions to the user: The device shows or speaks instructions to the user:
- User Code: AB12-CD34
- Verification URL: https://api.centia.io/device

User authorizes: On a separate device (phone, laptop), the user navigates to https://api.centia.io/device, enters the
user_code, and logs in. The user grants permission for the device to access their account.

Device polls for token: The device repeatedly polls the token endpoint with the `device_code` and `client_id` at intervals
specified by the interval:

```http
POST POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "grant_type": "device_code",
    "device_code": "<DEVICE_CODE>",
    "client_id": "<DEVICE_CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>"
}
```

Token issued: Once the user authorizes, Centia.io returns the access_token and optional refresh_token to the device.
The device then uses the access_token to communicate with Centia.io.

Notes:
- `client_secret` is only required for confidential clients.

## Token Lifecycles and Refresh Tokens

For all three flows, Centia.io issue refresh tokens alongside access tokens. A refresh token lets you request new
access tokens without re-authenticating the user.

Refresh token request:

```http
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "grant_type": "refresh_token",
    "refresh_token": "<REFRESH_TOKEN>",
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>"
}
```

Response: Returns a new access_token (and a new refresh_token), extending the session without requiring the user to log in again.

Notes:
- `client_secret` is only required for confidential clients.

## Choosing the Right Flow

### Password Flow:

Pros: Straightforward, easy to implement if you fully trust your client application.

Cons: Requires handling raw user credentials, considered less secure.

Best for: Internal apps, trusted first-party apps with a secure environment.

### Authorization Code Flow:

Pros: Highly secure when implemented correctly; works well for both web and native apps (PKCE).

Cons: Requires handling redirects, slightly more complex.

Best for: Public or third-party apps, and standard use cases with a browser or native application that can manage the
OAuth redirect flow.

### Device Flow:

Pros: Ideal for devices with limited input or no browser; user-friendly for IoT or Smart TV scenarios.

Cons: Requires an additional device to complete authorization; involves polling.

Best for: IoT, smart devices, or other specialized hardware.

## Implementation Details

Each of these flows is fully supported by our Centia.io. In practice, you will:

- Register your client with Centia.io [Client API](./clients) to obtain a client_id and client_secret.
- Configure redirect URIs as needed for each application.
- Integrate the flow most appropriate for your application’s user experience and security requirements.
See [SDK](./sdk)
- Handle tokens securely on the client side and refresh them when needed to maintain user sessions.

Commit message:

Revise documentation content and structure: update descriptions across multiple `.mdx` files for clarity and consistency, enhance `docusaurus.config.js` with SEO metadata and sitemap configuration, and improve accessibility and internationalization on the homepage.

docs/oauth.mdx, after:

title: OAuth
description: How to use OAuth with Centia.io: Password, Authorization Code (PKCE), and Device flows with examples and best practices.
sidebar_position: 20

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# OAuth
OAuth is an industry-standard protocol for authorization. It enables applications ([clients](./clients)) to
obtain limited access to user accounts on Centia.io, without sharing the user’s credentials
directly with the client. OAuth accomplishes this by providing a secure, delegated access flow that grants tokens to
client applications.

Within Centia.io, we implement three main OAuth flows, each suited for different use cases:

1. Password Flow
2. Authorization Code Flow
3. Device Flow

Each flow handles authentication and authorization differently.
Below is an outline of how to use each flow and when to choose one over another.

## Password Flow

### Overview

The Password Flow is the most direct OAuth flow. In this flow, the client application directly collects the user’s
credentials (username and password) and exchanges them with Centia.io for an access token.

Use cases:

- Trusted first-party applications where you trust the client application to handle user credentials directly.
- Legacy or internal applications that already require users to enter credentials directly into the app.
- Situations where an interactive browser-based redirection might be cumbersome or unnecessary.

Security considerations:

- Since the client handles user credentials directly, this flow is generally considered less secure and should only be
used when other flows are not feasible.
- Always ensure your communication is happening over a secure HTTPS channel.
- Store tokens securely and avoid persisting raw user credentials whenever possible.

### Flow Steps

1. Collect user credentials: Your application collects the username and password from the user securely.
2. Send token request: The client application sends a POST request to Centia.io OAuth token endpoint:

```http
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "grant_type": "password",
    "username": "<USER_USERNAME>",
    "password": "<USER_PASSWORD>",
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>"
}
```

3. Receive token response: If the credentials are valid, the authorization server returns
an access_token and optionally a refresh_token:

```json
{
  "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "refresh_token": "some-refresh-token"
}
```
4. Use the access token: The application includes the access_token in the Authorization header for subsequent requests:

```http
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...
```
Notes:
- `client_secret` is only required for confidential clients.

## Authorization Code Flow

### Overview
The Authorization Code Flow is the most commonly used OAuth 2.0 flow, particularly for web applications and single-page
applications (SPAs) that can securely handle client secrets on a server or use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange).

Use cases:

- Web or native applications that can securely manage client secrets or use PKCE for enhanced security.
- Situations where you want to avoid collecting user credentials in the application and
instead rely on a redirect to Centia.io login page.
- Multi-tenant or third-party applications that must not handle user credentials directly.

Security considerations:

- When running on public clients (like a browser-only single-page app), use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange)
to prevent authorization code interception.

- All callbacks and communications must use https:// to protect tokens and credentials.

Notes:
- At the moment, PKCE is mandatory for both public and confidential clients in the Authorization Code Flow.

### Flow Steps

1. User initiates login: The user attempts to log in, and the application redirects them to Centia.io login page:

```http
GET https://api.centia.io/auth?
    response_type=code&
    client_id=<CLIENT_ID>&
    redirect_uri=<REDIRECT_URI>&
    scope=<REQUESTED_SCOPES>&
    state=<RANDOM_STATE_STRING>&
    code_challenge=<CODE_CHALLENGE_STRING>&
    code_challenge_method=S256
```

2. User authenticates: The user enters their credentials on the Centia.io login page.

3. Centia.io returns code: If the user is authenticated and consents to the requested scopes, Centia.io
redirects the user back to the specified redirect_uri with a short-lived `authorization_code` and the state string for
the client to check:

```http
https://rockhall.io?code=67c2b....&state=49c9282cd61698....
```

4. Exchange code for tokens: The client application sends a POST request to Centia.io token endpoint, including the
authorization code and PKCE verifier:

```http title="application/json"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "grant_type": "authorization_code",
  "code": "<AUTH_CODE>",
  "redirect_uri": "<REDIRECT_URI>",
  "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
  "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
  "code_verifier": "<CODE_VERIFIER>"
}
```
Or:

```http title="application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Cookie: XDEBUG_SESSION=XDEBUG_ECLIPSE
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type = authorization_code &
code = <AUTH_CODE> &
redirect_uri = <REDIRECT_URI>
client_id = <CLIENT_ID> &
client_secret = <CLIENT_SECRET> &
code_verifier = <CODE_VERIFIER> &
```

5. Receive token response: Centia.io returns an access_token, refresh_token and related metadata:

```json
{
  "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "refresh_token": "some-refresh-token"
}
```

6. Use the access token: Subsequent resource requests to the Centia.io APIs include the access_token:

```http
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1...
```

## Device Flow

### Overview
The Device Flow is designed for input-constrained devices (e.g., Smart TVs, IoT devices) that either lack an integrated
web browser or have limited/awkward input capabilities. It allows the device to display or otherwise provide a user code
and verification URL. The user then completes the authorization on a separate device (like a phone or computer),
and the original device obtains an access token when the user authorizes.

Use cases:

- Smart TVs or streaming devices.
- IoT devices without a standard web browser input.
- Any system where the device can show a short code but does not have a keyboard or the ability to handle redirects.

Security considerations:

- The device never directly handles user credentials; it only polls the server for authorization status.
- Codes need to be displayed to the user in a secure and user-friendly manner.
- Polling interval should be respected to avoid overwhelming the authorization server.

### Flow Steps

1. Device requests a device code: The device makes a POST request to the device authorization endpoint:

```http
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth/device
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "client_id": "<DEVICE_CLIENT_ID>"
}
```

2. Receive device and user codes: The Centia.io responds with a device_code, user_code, verification_uri, and interval:

```json
{
    "device_code": "<DEVICE_CODE>",
    "user_code": "AB12-CD34",
    "verification_uri": "https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth",
    "expires_in": 1800,
    "interval": 5
}
```

Display instructions to the user: The device shows or speaks instructions to the user:
- User Code: AB12-CD34
- Verification URL: https://api.centia.io/device

User authorizes: On a separate device (phone, laptop), the user navigates to https://api.centia.io/device, enters the
user_code, and logs in. The user grants permission for the device to access their account.

Device polls for token: The device repeatedly polls the token endpoint with the `device_code` and `client_id` at intervals
specified by the interval:

```http
POST POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "grant_type": "device_code",
    "device_code": "<DEVICE_CODE>",
    "client_id": "<DEVICE_CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>"
}
```

Token issued: Once the user authorizes, Centia.io returns the access_token and optional refresh_token to the device.
The device then uses the access_token to communicate with Centia.io.

Notes:
- `client_secret` is only required for confidential clients.

## Token Lifecycles and Refresh Tokens

For all three flows, Centia.io issue refresh tokens alongside access tokens. A refresh token lets you request new
access tokens without re-authenticating the user.

Refresh token request:

```http
POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/oauth
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "grant_type": "refresh_token",
    "refresh_token": "<REFRESH_TOKEN>",
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>"
}
```

Response: Returns a new access_token (and a new refresh_token), extending the session without requiring the user to log in again.

Notes:
- `client_secret` is only required for confidential clients.

## Choosing the Right Flow

### Password Flow:

Pros: Straightforward, easy to implement if you fully trust your client application.

Cons: Requires handling raw user credentials, considered less secure.

Best for: Internal apps, trusted first-party apps with a secure environment.

### Authorization Code Flow:

Pros: Highly secure when implemented correctly; works well for both web and native apps (PKCE).

Cons: Requires handling redirects, slightly more complex.

Best for: Public or third-party apps, and standard use cases with a browser or native application that can manage the
OAuth redirect flow.

### Device Flow:

Pros: Ideal for devices with limited input or no browser; user-friendly for IoT or Smart TV scenarios.

Cons: Requires an additional device to complete authorization; involves polling.

Best for: IoT, smart devices, or other specialized hardware.

## Implementation Details

Each of these flows is fully supported by our Centia.io. In practice, you will:

- Register your client with Centia.io [Client API](./clients) to obtain a client_id and client_secret.
- Configure redirect URIs as needed for each application.
- Integrate the flow most appropriate for your application’s user experience and security requirements.
See [SDK](./sdk)
- Handle tokens securely on the client side and refresh them when needed to maintain user sessions.
