docs/users.mdx, before:

---
title: Sub-users
description: Users...
sidebar_position: 40
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Sub-users

Sub-users are users for your API. While you can use your super-user for single user projects, it is a good idea to create sub-users for projects involving multiple users, which can be granted different [privileges](./privileges.mdx) in the database.

## Create a new sub-user

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Create a new sub-user"
        POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "name": "alx",
            "email": "alx@gunsnroses.com",
            "password": "Paradise_City!%Rck1987"
        }
        ```
        ```http title="Create multiple sub-users"
        POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "users": [
                {
                    "name": "alx",
                    "email": "alx@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "Paradise_City!%Rck1987"
                },
                {
                    "name": "slash",
                    "email": "slash@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "November_Rain!%Pno1991"
                },
                {
                    "name": "izzy",
                    "email": "izzy@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "KnockinOn_HeavensDoor!%GnR1990"
                },
                {
                    "name": "duff",
                    "email": "duff@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "Welcome2_Jungle!%AxL1987"
                },
                {
                    "name": "steven",
                    "email": "steven@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "SweetChild_oMine!%Gtr1987"
                }
            ]
        }
        ```


    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash title="Create a new sub-user"
        centia user add "alx"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Get sub-users

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="A single sub-users"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users/alx,slash HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

        ```http title="A all sub-users"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash title="A single sub-user"
        centia user get "alx"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Update sub-users

It is not possible to update the collection of all sub-users. Only explicit given sub-users.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Update single sub-users"
        PATCH https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users/alx,slash HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "user_group": "gunsnroses"
        }

        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash title="A single user"
        centia user update "alx"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Delete sub-users

It is not possible to delete the collection of all sub-users. Only explicit given sub-users.


<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Delete single sub-users"
        DELETE https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users/izzy,steven HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia user drop "izzy"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Signup (Browser – Create a new user)

Centia.io supports signup via the browser. From your app, you can redirect the user to the signup page:

```
https://api.centia.io/signup?client_id=abc123&parentdb=mydb&redirect_uri=https://myapp.com/login
```

Parameters:
- client_id: OAuth client id configured in Centia.io
- parentdb: The parent/tenant database under which the new user should be created
- redirect_uri: URL in your app to return to after sign‑up

The SDK has a [helper function](sdk#signup-browser--create-a-new-user) to redirect the user to the signup page.

Notes:
- After the user completes sign‑up and is redirected back to your app, start your normal sign‑in flow (e.g., CodeFlow. A session is started when the user signed up, so the user will be signed in automatically in the flow.)
- Client property `allow_signup` must be set to `true` for the used OAuth client.
- Client property `social_signup` must be set to `true` for the user can sign up with social login.

Commit message:

Revise documentation content and structure: update descriptions across multiple `.mdx` files for clarity and consistency, enhance `docusaurus.config.js` with SEO metadata and sitemap configuration, and improve accessibility and internationalization on the homepage.

docs/users.mdx, after:

---
title: Sub-users
description: Manage application sub-users in Centia.io: create, list, update, and delete users via HTTP API or CLI.
sidebar_position: 40
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Sub-users

Sub-users are users for your API. While you can use your super-user for single user projects, it is a good idea to create sub-users for projects involving multiple users, which can be granted different [privileges](./privileges.mdx) in the database.

## Create a new sub-user

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Create a new sub-user"
        POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "name": "alx",
            "email": "alx@gunsnroses.com",
            "password": "Paradise_City!%Rck1987"
        }
        ```
        ```http title="Create multiple sub-users"
        POST https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "users": [
                {
                    "name": "alx",
                    "email": "alx@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "Paradise_City!%Rck1987"
                },
                {
                    "name": "slash",
                    "email": "slash@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "November_Rain!%Pno1991"
                },
                {
                    "name": "izzy",
                    "email": "izzy@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "KnockinOn_HeavensDoor!%GnR1990"
                },
                {
                    "name": "duff",
                    "email": "duff@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "Welcome2_Jungle!%AxL1987"
                },
                {
                    "name": "steven",
                    "email": "steven@gunsnroses.com",
                    "password": "SweetChild_oMine!%Gtr1987"
                }
            ]
        }
        ```


    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash title="Create a new sub-user"
        centia user add "alx"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Get sub-users

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="A single sub-users"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users/alx,slash HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

        ```http title="A all sub-users"
        GET https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash title="A single sub-user"
        centia user get "alx"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Update sub-users

It is not possible to update the collection of all sub-users. Only explicit given sub-users.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Update single sub-users"
        PATCH https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users/alx,slash HTTP/1.1
        Content-Type: application/json
        Authorization: Bearer abc123

        {
            "user_group": "gunsnroses"
        }

        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash title="A single user"
        centia user update "alx"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Delete sub-users

It is not possible to delete the collection of all sub-users. Only explicit given sub-users.


<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="http" label="HTTP" default>

        ```http title="Delete single sub-users"
        DELETE https://api.centia.io/api/v4/users/izzy,steven HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json; charset=utf-8
        Authorization: Bearer abc123
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

        ```bash
        centia user drop "izzy"
        ```

    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Signup (Browser – Create a new user)

Centia.io supports signup via the browser. From your app, you can redirect the user to the signup page:

```
https://api.centia.io/signup?client_id=abc123&parentdb=mydb&redirect_uri=https://myapp.com/login
```

Parameters:
- client_id: OAuth client id configured in Centia.io
- parentdb: The parent/tenant database under which the new user should be created
- redirect_uri: URL in your app to return to after sign‑up

The SDK has a [helper function](sdk#signup-browser--create-a-new-user) to redirect the user to the signup page.

Notes:
- After the user completes sign‑up and is redirected back to your app, start your normal sign‑in flow (e.g., CodeFlow. A session is started when the user signed up, so the user will be signed in automatically in the flow.)
- Client property `allow_signup` must be set to `true` for the used OAuth client.
- Client property `social_signup` must be set to `true` for the user can sign up with social login.
